From ETHCSE-L%UTKVM1.BITNET@VM1.NODAK.EDU Tue Mar 23 21:11:11 1993
Received from vm1.NoDak.edu by plains.NoDak.edu; Tue, 23 Mar 1993 21:11:09 -0600
Message-Id: <199303240311.AA12564@plains.NoDak.edu>
Received: from VM1.NODAK.EDU by VM1.NoDak.EDU (IBM VM SMTP V2R2) with BSMTP
d 3312; Tue, 23 Mar 93 21:10:21 CST
Received: from VM1.NODAK.EDU (NJE origin LISTSERV@NDSUVM1) by VM1.NODAK.EDU (LMail V1.1d/1.7f) with BSMTP id 6913; Tue, 23 Mar 1993 21:10:21 -0600
Date:         Tue, 23 Mar 1993 21:10:59 -0600
Reply-To: Ethical Issues in Software Engineering <ETHCSE-L@utkvm1.bitnet>
Sender: Ethical Issues in Software Engineering <ETHCSE-L@utkvm1.bitnet>
From: SWANSOVK@CNSVAX.UWEC.EDU
Subject:      business dilemma
X-To:         ethcse-l@utkvm1.utk.edu
To: Multiple recipients of list ETHCSE-L <ETHCSE-L@utkvm1.bitnet>
Status: R

  I am seeking advice for a friend who is in a business dilemna.  My friend,
Pat, owns a software consulting buiness.  Three years ago Pat accepted
a contract from a new business (ABC Co.).  Pat would develop the software
necessary for ABC's machines to run.  ABC and Pat settled on a written
agreement stating that Pat would not be paid on an hourly basis but would
receive royalties for each machine sold.  ABC considered Pat a partner.

  ABC Co. is growing too fast.  They are asking Pat for many enhancements.
The original contract is now outdated.  Pat is no longer able to handle
the workload alone and needs to hire another programmer.  However, based
on the original agreement, Pat cannot afford to do so without an increase
in payment.

  The business's response to this predicament is that they would prefer
to not contract out their software but to have an in-house software
department.  Knowing this, Pat feels like she is being squeezed out.
They have even gone so far as asking Pat to start up and manage the
software department.  However, if Pat were to be hired as an employee
of ABC instead of as a contractor, she would be forced to relinquish
her rights to the royalties.  This would be a GREAT deal of money.
We're talking early retirement!

  There is a nonperformance clause in the contract.  If Pat does not
complete the work assigned, regardless of the fact that it is too much
work for one person to complete, Pat can be released from the contract.
Is this the company's way of setting Pat up to fail so that they do not
have to pay royalties?

  As for another computer software dilemna:  ABC would not have to pay
royalties if they discontinue using Pat's software.  From ABC's point
of view, this means if Pat's software is "updated", "improved",
"revised", it is no longer Pat's and, therefore, Pat is no longer
entitled to royalties.

  It has been agreed that a new contract is necessary.  However, the
items in this new contract cannot be agreed upon.  ABC offered Pat a
new contract knowing full well that it would not be accepted as is.
Pat offered a counter proposal.  ABC rejected it without further
explanation.  When anyone at ABC was approached on the subject of
renegotiation, they would simply say; "It's out of my hands." or "I'm
not authorized." or "I'll get back to you." etc.

  The ethical questions here are:
1)  Is the ABC company ethical in forcing Pat to adhere to the original
        contract even though they realize that it is completely outdated?

2)  How ethical is it to offer Pat a low ball contract and refuse to
        negotiate?

3)  Is Pat being ethical in demanding that a new contract be written up?
        A contract IS a contract.

4)  Of course ABC wants to save money, but how ethical is it to assign
        Pat an impossible amount of work so that ABC can discontinue
        paying her royalties based on the nonperformance clause?

5)  Is Pat being ethical in demanding more money in order to hire more
        help?

6)  How many revisions can be made to Pat's software before it is no
        longer "Pat's"?

  If you have any suggestions, comments or similar scenarios, I would greatly
appreciate reading about them.  Thank you for your input and your time
in assisting my friend in this dilemma.

                                swansovk@cnsvax.uwec.edu


