Ethics Lecture I (Given by Fr. J. Feltis, in December of 1991.)

The purpose of these Lectures is to give the
students information necessary to develop a methodology of
making efforts and decisions.

Methodology - a way of going about doing something.

The general way, for instance, for those of you who are
engineers, I suppose there is a general way you go about
designing a bridge obviously there are some specifics with this
bridge and there is a general methodology by which you build a
bridge. I suppose you put the footings in concrete rather than
playdo.  It's a way, a methodology.  For those of you who are in
computers and I know a little bit about computers, is that, there
is a methodology to making a better program.  It's the same way
with making decisions.  One needs to develop a method system by
which they make decisions.  What's the alternative of not having
a system?  Well the alternative is this; I get to do what I want. 
That also means that someone else gets to do what they want. 
This means you have a conflict of rights.  What's the alternative
of not having a system.  Well there is the old method of the
Catholic church.  Do this, but don't do this.  They give us a
list.  So you can write it into your computer brain.  I can do
this but I can't do this.  I can pray but I can't masterbate, I
can go to church but I can't have sex.  Why can't they have it all
down and just do.  But that's not all.  Personally I would want
to have a system by which I make decisions.  A way.  And that is
what this class is about.

Now I'm a Catholic Priest.  Better to be for than against.  Now
it's not for me to be standing up in front of all of you and say
"This is the system".  Follow this system and you'll do the right
thing.   If you want that, then I would teach a class in catholic
moral theology.  But that is not what this is.  It's for me to
help you to look at some different things, different theories,
different concepts, different ideas.  You make the decisions. 
You build the system.  It's not for me to be judging whether your
system is better than somebody elses, it is not up to me to say
if this is a good system and this is a bad system.  But it's your
system.  It's your program.  And it's up to you to build it.  If
you don't build it somebody else will. Think about it.  If you
don't build your system somebody else will.  I believe and I
think you can substantiate this empirically through observation. 
You can substantiate this statistically.  There are people who
would grind you up and sell you by pound, for capital.
We have the world of the kidnapped children, we have
childrens pornography, that will rape, kill, use, murder, steel,
lie, cheat.  So what's the candid capital?  Somebody who would do
it?  Somebody's going to come along to you and say "Hey, do a
line of coke, straighten you right up".  Somebody comes along and
says "there's no such thing as AIDS"  Another person comes along
and says "there is to, but what do you worry?".  Someone comes
along and say "rap that rascal, he's a commie"  Someone else comes
along and says "no".

What do you believe?  I'm totally immune to all these things.
If you don't know what you stand for.  There are a lot of people out
there that would just love to have you out there.  How many
people go through life - My mom and dad told me ....  

"Well what do you think?"  

"I don't know I have to ask my mom."  

"How old are you?"

"21."

The church tells me I can't do it.  What do you think?  Maybe you
can go to the church and pray but you've got to decide. Or,
everybody else is doing it.  Remember when you were a teenager,
your mom would say "I suppose if everybody jumped off a bridge
you'd do it to".  

"Well everybody else did so it's got to be right.  Nobody else is
doing it so it's got to be wrong."

Well what do you stand for?  Did you ever know about junior high
school kids?  How many of you are in education?  Too bad we don't
have more educators than that.  I would starve before I would
teach junior high school kids.  They're sub-human.  They're brain
is toast.  And that's true.  You ask a person in education. 
There's much more, plenty more, theoretically.  Generally
speaking, what your high school students are focused on is new
life.  They're focused right down the line.  So the teacher with
the junior high school students would say "how did you feel about
that?  Spreading toilet paper all over the bathroom?"  How you
feel is not the issue.  It's about right and wrong.  

"I don't know, I don't know.  It's a big word.  D u n n o.  I
dunno."

And that's why they travel in packs.  Did you ever notice that. 
You see them out in West Acres, like birds.  They all want to be
different.  Walking with the same tennis shoes or running shoes.
Same kind of slacks, hairs all done the same way.  The junior
high school boys with one arm longer.  There adams apple is way
out to here.  So somebody tells them "you got to do this".

"O.K, O.K., O.K. got to do this."  

But the point is, if you don't have a system, somebody else will
give you one.  Now I would say that I want to develop my own
system.  That coincides with my parents, the church, or whatever. 
But wonderful.  But that's a great challenge that you have has a
person.  And it's a wonderful privilege, it's a wonderful
responsibility and a wonderful obligation that you have.  I
wouldn't give it away to anybody.  No matter how many people you
know.  At my age of 38, I'm 40 now.  You know.  Having fun.

So your going to develop a system.  And so, to do that, you're
going to look at different theories.  Like Plato, a little bit. 
Like Aristotle, Keats, ...

There are two points of view.  The first one is "What is it that I
ought to do as a person?"  I have a responsibility to myself as a person.
But we are also members of society, so I have a responsibility as a
member of society.  We have to have a collective conscience as well as an
individual conscience.  What is it that I believe that I ought to do?
What is it that I believe society ought to do?

There are two point of view.  We have a collective conscience and
an individual conscience.  We may have forgotten the collective conscience,
but it is there.  It is through the collective conscience that things happen.

Someone could ask "are there really any definite answers?"  I don't know.
The real question is "Do you have a position and how well do you understand
it.  How well can you substantiate your positions based on the writings of
the great writers of the past and your basic belief system and logic.

Evaluation:  If I was an employer, what would I look at?  Grades are one thing
one time (your first job).  Then the next employer is most interested in what
you did on the last job.  This is my opinion on grades.  If I were to go in
for a job with my transcript in hand, I would not want to go in with an F.
I would rather not have to do that.  

On the first paper, I want you to tell me about the ethical system you have
now (at the beginning of the course) to make decisions.  What do you think
about?  Maybe you use no system.  Give me examples to illustrate.
Some people are like that.  How does it work for you?  Maybe it works just
fine.  You don' have to bare your deepest secrets.
On the paper, there should be paragraphs, indented.  Paragraphs should have
three sentences (at least).  Topic sentence.  Body sentence. Concluding
sentence.  One inch margins all around, double spaced.
The second paper will be on what your ethical system is at the end (or toward
the end) of this course.

Cheating.  If you get caught cheating in a ethics class you get a F.  How
could anyone argue with that.


What you need I think, is a grand plan of life.  What's your grand plan of life?
Ask you self - what's your grand plan about life?  Life is sh__!  Is that
your grand plan?  Is your grand plan of life having to be at NDSU monday
through friday and getting to go home to Montpelier on weekends?
What's your grand plan of life?  I want to get married and have a baby.
I want to get a good job.  Can't you get a little grander than that?
What's your grand plan?  You have to have a grand plan.  It's like hunting
season.  The guys have a grand plan.  First of all you have to out in the
sticks or go out in the fields in this particular territory.  You are going
to be in the trees.  You have to have a plan.  Don't be afraid to think of
one.  Don't be afraid to dream.  Don't be afraid to be idealistic.
Don't be afraid to consider who you are as a person.
Ask yourself, so what kind of a person am I?  
I would say young people bite off more than they can chew.  They just don't
care about themselves.  There is nothing worse.  There are three kinds
of people.  There are conformist, cameleons - they just go along with it.
Happy today ...
You have the naive conformers.  You have the critical transformers.
Critical transformers are people who look at life, learn about life,
read about life, struggle with life, think about life, in a critical,
knowledgeable, informed way.  They make decisions - for you, yourselves society.
The most dangerous people in the world are the naive conformers.
You know that as well as I do.  They are all over the place.
The have no idea what they are voting for, what they are going to do.
The thing is,. you have power.  Whether you are a teacher, doctor, kindergarten
manager, accountant, you have power.  You may make mistakes.  You make mistakes
and people may die.  The space shuttle that blew up - someone with power made
mistakes and people died.  You make mistakes and people are hurt.  You chose
to marry the wrong person.  The children are hurt.  You've got to have a grand
plan of life.  The problem is how to be a person.  The problem is not how
to "become" a person.  You are a person.  Don't sit and say "how can I become
a person?".  That's ridiculous.  You are a person.

The problem is how to BE a person.  It's one thing to say "I AM".
I AM the fastest guy here.  You have to BE the fastest guy here.
I AM the best programmer here.  You have to BE the best programmer.
What kind of a programmer do you want to be, father, mother sister brother...
That's part of that grand plan.  You are a person - what kind of a person?
As I said, you already possess personhood.  You've got that - you got it!
The question is "how do I become what I am?  How do I become a person?"
How do I take a look at who I am?  See ethics is about.  What type of person
am I?  It makes life good, it makes life easier.  It helps make the right
decisions so you can have a good life, a happy life, a comfortable life.  

You know when they say someone has been brought up on an ethics charge.
What do you think?  SEX!  Uhuh, Yah.  No!  Ethics is life.  Maybe an ethical
issue right now with regard to pre-marital sex is condoms.  There is no law
that says you have to use a comdon, right?  But you almost have a moral
obligation.  Even if you don't care about yourself, there is another person.
You also have a moral obligation to yourself.  You don't have to use a comdom.
I'm not going to come around "comdom check!" Nobody else is either.
There is no law.  There are consequences though. 

Another thing is this.
What kind of a person am I going to be?  Not what others expect me to be.
The company says you will do this!  You say, "that's not who I am."
You parents say this is who you will be.  Is that the way you want to be?
So, what are you?
You see it happen a lot, that we loose our identity.  The military says
"this is colonel so and so"  What the heck is a kernel?  Who is he?
Do I have to change because he is a colonel?

Ethics Lecture I  continued (Given by Fr. J. Feltis, in December of 1991.)

Another thing is this.
What kind of a person am I going to be?  Not what others expect me to be.
The company says you will do this!  You say, "that's not who I am."
You parents say this is who you will be.  Is that the way you want to be?
So, what are you?
You see it happen a lot, that we loose our identity.  The military says
"this is colonel so and so"  What the heck is a kernel?  Who is he?
Do I have to change because he is a colonel?

I ask who am I based on what I am, not on what I've been told I must be.
A good boy does this.  A good catholic does this.
A bad girl does this.  A bad catholic does this.
A good student does this.

You need to discover within yourself who you are.
Knowing what I stand for, what I believe in, what is important,
what is my grand view of life, not somebody elses grand view of my life.

My mother and my father want me to go back to the farm and become a farmer.
I want to be a teacher.

You can't be what your Dad wants you to be, you have to be what you are.

What do I stand for?  If you don't know what you stand for, somebody else
will decide for you.
So I'm telling you, you have to know what you stand for.

So what do I stand for, remembering that the responsibility is mine .
The responsibility is not Moms, dads, the churches.

The responsibility to know what you stand for is yours.
Who's responsibility is it to be you?  It's yours, not mine.
The buck stops with you.  If you fail it is your fault.

Joe Clark. at a black school in the East, said as addressing the school
If you're not a success, don't blame your mom, your pop, blame yourself.

It's your responsibility.  Now, blame ...
Don't blame others, blame yourself.
If you loose your job, don't blame others, blame yourself.
Then shift the responsibility to you.  Because, you choose.
What you are going to be is going to be determined by the choices you make.

What is ethics all about?
------------------------

What choices should I make.  What choices ought I make.
Who you are going to be is going to be determined by the choices you make.
That's the bottom line.

You chose to come to NDSU.  You choose your major.  You choose to marry a
particular person.  You choose to have or not have children.
You choose divorce.  You choose to remarry.  

If you are there saturday morning at the toilet, vomiting your guts out,
remember, there are choices.

If your roommate is laying there vomiting, you can remind him, "there
are choices".  Thnk about it and remember that there are choices.

Sometimes the choices are clear or easy.
You have to do it yourself it yourself, I have to resolve it myself.
This is your mission in life.  This is the biggest task you have in your life.
Without it nothing else matters.  You have to do it yourself.

For instance, being physically fit.
I wish I could have somebody do it for me.
I wish I could have some young 20 year old guy go out and lift weights for
me and get all those muscles from his work.  I used to enjoy sweating, but
now I enjoy beer.  But the point is I have to do it myself.  It's tough
work.

The point is I have to do it myself.  Coaches can guide you,but you have to
do it yourself - I have to do it myself.
The point is, I would say, don't give away that freedom.
You see that's a tremendous, non-finite, open-ended thing.

I don't know that life is like a giant cafeteria.
You can choose.

I will listen to a lot of good things.  But I wouldn't give away that freedom.
I wouldn't give away that privilege.
That's what we call free will.  I don't care who you think gave it to you.
The tree, the dog, Jehovah, Jesus Christ, Buddha, Mohammad, the Spirit.
But it is a privilege you have.  One of the great privileges you have in
America.

It is also an obligation.  You do not have a right to go through life without
thinking.  You are going to make decisions that affect your life and my life.
You have the obligation to put something in this head of yours so that
you can make the best possible decisions.

One of the things that you people
are loosing, generally, is the power of reason.  Computers, I think, are
bringing that on.  With more advanced computers, you don't have to think,
just look.

People forget that there is a process.  Things take longer than a 30 minute TV
program.  So if I'm hurting.  I break up with someone.  I'm hurting.
I've been through it.  Most of us have.  There has been a disappointment.
There is a process of grieving.  The gentleman who didn't get an award.
The point is to MAKE THE PAIN GO AWAY.
We say to the doctors, the lawyers, counselors, "Here it is.  I don't want it!"
They can't take it away.  You've got to work through it.
They can spend an hour with you while you say "take it away! take it away!"
They can't do that.  You've got to reason.

Let's talk about how we do that.

What is ethics.  I want to make two points.
Be a responsible person.  Responsible to yourself, your spouse, society,
your children, society.  It's about doing the right thing.
All people want to do two things in life.

 - they want to be responsible
 - they want to do the right things in life.

ETHICS is about FORMING PRINCIPLES!  Remember that.
ETHICS is about FORMING PRINCIPLES!

Principles that describe how to behave.
Principles that help to tell us what we ought to do.

Morals is about behavior.  Ethics is about principles.

Our principles inform our behavior.  So the question you have to ask
yourself is "if he is a moral person, must he have good principles?"
Someone can be immoral, but have high principles.
We have people on death row who know that it's wrong to kill.
Even a junior high student will tell you it's wrong to steal.
but their behavior certainly doesn't reflect that.

Shouldn't cheat.  There's a principle that we can apply.
Have sex without a condom.

It's called freedom.  You have to have freedom.
It's good to have freedom - political freedom, religious freedom...

This is about making choices.  The older you get the more choices you
get to make.  For many of you when you were living at home, you had
some choices, but not a lot.  Now you are more free to make choices.

You also have a responsibility to make choices.  

Imagine it's a week before Christmas and you have one job to fill and
15 applicants. 15 people who want the same job - who need the job.
A board is going to recommend, but I have to decide.
I have the freedom to choose, but I also have a responsibility.
If I choose badly, the company will go down the tubes and I will suffer
along with everyone else.

We have the freedom to make choices and we have the responsibility to
make choices.   "Choices", the greatest word in the English language.

I took my dog in to get fixed the other day.  They don't have many choices.
We make most of the choices for our pets.  They don't have responsibilities
either.  I suppose if they would be responsible for sexual activity, we would
not choose for them to be fixed.

We people have lots of choices - and lots of responsibilities.

You can create the world you live in, destroy the world you live in.
You can make life miserable for yourself.  You can make life happy for yourself.
We have the power to determine our nature. We have the power to the nature of
civilized society, whatever. 

In a civilized society, we have to have some kind of system, norms of behavior,
etc.  We have to think, reflect, before we act.

When I go shopping, I have to think, reflect, before I buy.  Whether to buy
the red shirt of the black shirt.  So you have to think and reflect.

You have the power of reason.  And that is really a power, the power to
reason.

Aristotle says.  Everything is intelligent - even a plant is intelligent.
It knows enough to go toward a source of light.  It never knows why.
So you are at the level of a plant, until you can ask yourself 'Why?"
There are humans who operate at the level of plants.
You can think reason, ask yourself questions.
Maybe what I have done is wrong.  I could do it differently.

I believe that we have the power to create.
It is a wonderful power, privilege, obligation.  To create.

Now I really think there isn't much new under the sun.
What's there is there.  You know. What is.
For all practical purposes, these things are there.

Somebody asks you out.  You say "I'll let you know in a while"
Maybe know the decision is to go out with that person.
But it may change through thought, questioning and reason.

I think ethics is like turning a light on in a dark room.
If we turned the lights off in this room, we'd still be here.
But if we study ethics, we look at things differently.

The more I realize about the world, the more I realize I don't know.
So ethics is like turning the light on in a dark room - your knowledge
changes.  You know more and there is more you don't know.

It's like a computer.  The more you know about it the more you realize
there is to it and the more you realize you don't know.

That's what ethics is about.  It's about life.  The more you know about
life the more there is to it.  You've got to have a methodology by which
to make decisions.  How do I go about making the decisions I use.  What
do I do? What do I put in there?  It feels good?  Greatest good for the
greatest number?

Ethics is the methodology by which we make decisions - we make decisions
for ourselves and for society.
So how do I develop a system to prescribe my behavior.  What is my prescription?
A prescription tells us how we ought to act when we take medicine.  Take one
every 4 hours.  Not whenever we feel like it.

Ethics gives you that opportunity.  To prescribe and make critical judgments.

Psychology is the study of behavior itself.  The old ABC method:
Antecedent, behavior, consequence.
For every behavior there is an antecedent - something that brought about that
behavior.  And there is a consequence of that behavior.

Cheating, as a behavior.
What are the antecedents that brought about the behavior of cheating?
Too lazy to study.  scared,...

Then what are the consequences - flunked out, dropped out...

And so
psychology will tell you why.  ethics is about saying "what principles will
guide my thinking and behavior?"


