For the purposes of section 12.1-06.1-08:

a. "Access" means to approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from, or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network.

b. "Computer" means and electronic device which performs work using programmed
instruction and which has one or more of the capabilities of storage, logic,
arithmetic, communication, or memory and includes all input, output, processing,
storage, software, or communication facilities that are connected or related 
to such a device in a system of network.

c. "Computer Network" means the interconnection of communication lines,
including microwave, fiber optics, light beams, or other means of electronic
or optic data communication, with a computer through remote terminals or a
complex consisting of two or more interconnected computers.

d. "Computer Program" means a series of instructions or statements, in a form
acceptable to a computer, which permits the functioning of a computer system
in a manner designed to provide appropriate products from such computer system.

e. "Computer Software" means a set of computer programs, procedures, and
associated documentation concerned with the operation of a computer system.

f. "Computer system" means a set of related, connected, or unconnected
computer equipment, devices and software.

g. "Financial instrument" means any credit card, debit card, or electronic
fund transfer card, code, or other means of access to an account for the 
purpose of initiating electronic fund transfers, or any check, draft, money
order, certificate of deposit, letter of credit, bill of exchange,
marketable security, or any other written instrument which is transferable for
value.

h. "Property" includes financial instruments, information, electronically
produced or stored data, supporting documentation, computer software,
and computer programs in either machine or human readable form, and any
other tangible or intangible item of value.

i. "Services" includes computer time, data processing, storage functions,
and other uses of a computer, computer system, or computer network to
perform useful work.

SOURCES: S.L., ch. 163, #1; 1987, ch. 164, #1; 1987, ch. 165, # 1.
NOTES.  Section 1 of chapter 164, S.L. 1987, which amended subdivisions
b,c,g,h and i of subsection 3 of this section, became effective July 14, 1987.

Section 1 of chapter 165, S.L. 1987, which enacted a new subdivision d in
subsection 2 of this section, with a concomitant change in the alphabetical
order of the subdivisions, became effective July 8, 1987.


12.1-06.1-08  Computer Fraud - Computer Crime - Classification - Penalty.
              --------------   --------------   --------------   -------
1. A person commits a computer fraud by gaining or attempting to gain  
access to, altering, damaging, modifying, copying, disclosing, taking possession
of, or destroying any computer, computer system, computer network, or any part
of such computer, system, or network, without authorization, and with the intent
to devise or execute any scheme or artifice to defraud, deceive, prevent the
authorized use of, or control property or services by means of false or
fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises.  A person who commits
computer fraud is guilty of a class C felony.

2. A person commits computer crime by intentionally and either in excess
of authorization given or without authorization gaining or attempting to gain
access to, altering, damaging, modifying, copying, disclosing, taking possession
of, destroying, or preventing the authorized use of any computer, computer
system, or computer network, or any computer software, program, or data
contained in such computer, computer system, or computer network.  A person
who commits computer crime is guilty of a class A misdemeanor.

SOURCES: S.L. 1983, ch. 163, #8; 1987, ch. 164, #2.

Effective Date: The 1987 amendment of this section became effective
                July 14, 1987.

Collateral References:  Criminal liability for theft of, interference with, or
unauthorized use of, computer programs, files, or systems, 51 ALR 4th 971.
What is computer "trade secret" under state law, 53 ALR 4th 1046.


44-04-18.5.  Confidentiality of computer software programs.  Any computer
software program or component of a computer software program for which any
state agency, institution, department, or board acquires a copyright
or a patent is confidential.

SOURCES: S.L. 1989, ch. 542, #2,


51-22-02.  Prohibition against disclosure except upon written consent -
Application of section.

1. No business entity which charges a fee for data processing services performed
may disclose in whole or in part the contents of any record, including the
disclosure of information contained in the record through inclusion in any
composite of information, which is prepared or maintained by such business
entity to any person, other than the individual or business entity which is the
subject of the record, without the express written consent of such individual
or business entity.
2. This section does not apply to the following:
a.  A disclosure to any person pursuant to a subpoena or court order.
b.  A disclosure which is discoverable pursuant to the North Dakota Rules
    of Civil Procedure.
c.  A disclosure to any person pursuant to a lawful search warrant.

SOURCES: S.L. 1981, ch. 500, #2,
