The following question can be pondered while reading Chapter 6 on the changing
nature of the workforce and workplace.

It is a fact that unemployment stands at under 3% in the Fargo-Moorhead
area.  In light of the fact that the farm economy and the oil economy are down,
why does our area continue to experience almost full employment?

Why, since the workplace revolution talked about in Chapter 6 is happening
mostly on the coasts, is the FM area immuned to the employment slumps?

Reasons to consider:

   1.  ND leading export is young people (the workforce is small because people
       leave the state).

   2.  The revolution is a destabilizing force with respect to the employment.

   3.  FM area people are willing to work.


Question:  Would you prefer to stay in this area if the right job were
available to you here?  Or do you intend to relocate elsewhere no matter
what the job situation is here?


Note:  The computer generations referred to in Chapter 6 are hardware
generations while the generations in previous notes were software generations
(or total system generations).  Since the hardware generations given in
the text are very ambiguous and under-defined, I will not try to reconcile
them with the generation-discussion we have already had.  You will not be
required to do that either.



In Chapter 7, the notion of TELECOMMUTING is discussed.  There is a very
short article in the ACM Communications, January, 1992, V35:1 entitled
"The Great Work" by John Perry Barlow.  It is so interesting, inaccessible to
those who are not ACM members, and pertinent to the Telecommuting discussion
that I repeat it here for you (I could, of course, Xerox it for everyone, but
given the discussion in Chapter 6 of automated publishing, paper volume
reduction, etc., I will save the paper):


"The Great Work", by John Perry Barlow.

Earlier in this century, the French philosopher and anthropologist Teilhard de
Chardin wrote that evolution was an ascent toward what he called "The Omega
Point", when all consciousness would converge into unity, creating the
collective organism of the Mind.  When I first encountered the Net, I had
forgotten my college dash through Teilhard's Phenomenon of Man.  It took me a
while to remember where I had first encountered the idea of this immense and
gathering organism.

Whether or not it represents Teilhard's vision, seems clear we are about some
Great Work here - the physical wiring of collective human consciousness.
The idea of mind in full-duplex broadband is one which, for a hippie
mystic like me, has clear theological implications, despite the ironic fact
that most of the builders are bit wranglers and protocol priests, a proudly
prosaic lot.  What thoughts will all this assembled neurology, silicon and
optical fiber think?

Since Teilhard was a Roman Catholic priest who never tried to forge a SLIP
connection, his answers to that question were more conventionally Christian
than mine.  But it doesn't really matter.  We will build it and then find out.

And however obscure our reason, we do seem determined to build it.  Since 1970,
when the Arpanet was established, it has become, as Internet, one of the
largest and fastest-growing creations in the history of human endeavor.
Internet is now expanding as much as 25% a month, a curve which plotted
on a linear trajectory would put every single human being on-line in a few
decades.

Or, more likely, not.  Indeed, what we seem to be making a the moment
is something which will unite only the corporate, military, and academic
worlds, excluding the ghettos, hick towns, and suburbs where most human
minds do their thinking.  We are rushing toward a world in which there will be
Knows, constituting Wired Minds, and Know Nots, who will count of little but the
labor and consumption necessary to support it.

If that happens, the Great Work  will have failed, since, theological issues
aside, its most profound consequences should be the global liberation of
everyone's speech.  A truly open and accessible Net will become an environment
of expression which no single government could stifle.

When Mitch Kapor and I first founded the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF),
we were eager to ensure that the rights established by the First Amendment
would be guaranteed in Cyberspace.  But it wasn't long before we realized
that in such borderless terrain, the First Amendment is a local ordinance.

While we have not abandoned a constitutional strategy in ensuring free digital
commerce, we have also come to recognize that, as Kapor puts it,
"Architecture is politics."  In other words,  if the Net is ubiquitous,
affordable, easy to access, tunneled with encrypted passageways,
and based on multiple competitive channels, no local tyranny will be very
effective against it.

A clear demonstration of this principle was visible during the recent
coup in the Soviet Union.  Because of the decentralized and redundant
nature of digital media, it was impossible for the geriatric plotters
in the Kremlin to suppress the delivery of truth.  Faxes and email
messages kept the opposition more current with developments than the
KGB, with its hierarchical information systems, could possibly be. 
Whatever legal restraints the s\aspiring dictators might have imposed
were impotent against the natural anarchy of the Net.

Well, I could have a swell time here soliloquizing about such notions
as the Great Work or the assurance of better living through
electronics, but all great journeys proceed by tedious increments. 
Though the undertaking is grand, it is the nuts and bolts--the
regulatory and commercial politics, the setting of standards, the
technical acceleration of bits--that matter.  While they are complex
and boring enough to erode the most resolute enthusiasm, if they don't
get done, neither does the Great Work.

So we need to think about what small steps must be undertaken today. 
Even while thinking globally, we must begin, as the bumper sticker
fatuously reminds us, by acting locally.  That is why I will focus the
remainder of this column on near-term conditions, opportunities, and
preferred courses of action within the boundaries of the United
States.

To a large extent, America is the old country of Cyberspace.  The
first large interconnected networks were developed here as was much of
the supporting technology.  Leaving aside the estimable French Minitel
system, Cyberspace is, in its present condition, highly American in
culture and language.  Though fortunately this is increasingly less
the case, much of the infrastructure of the Net still sits on American
soil.  For this reason, the U.S. remains the best place to enact the
policies upon which the global electronic future will be founded.

In the opinion of the EFF, the first order of business is the creation
of what we call the National Public Network--named with the hope that
the word "National" should become obsolete as soon as possible.  By
this, we mean a ubiquitous digital web, accessible to every American
in practical, economic, and functional terms.  This network would
convey, in addition to traditional telephone service, email, software,
faxes, such multimedia forms of communication as "video postcards,"
and, in time, high-definition television as well as other media barely
imagined.

Its services should be extended by a broad variety of providers,
including the existing telephone, cable, publishing, broadcast, and
digital network companies.  Furthermore, if its architecture is
appropriately open to free enterprise, we can expect the emergence of
both new companies and new kinds of companies.  Properly designed, the
National Public Network will constitute a market for goods and
services which will make the $100 billion-a-year personal computer
business look like a precursor to the Real Thing.

As a first step, we are proposing that Congress and state agencies
establish regulatory mechanisms and incentives that will:

- Establish an open platform for information services by speedy        
  nationwide deployment of "Personal ISDN"

- Ensure competition in local exchange services in order to provide
  equitable access to communications media

- Promote free expression by reaf-firming principles of common         
  carriage

- Foster innovations that make networks and information services       
  easier to use

- Protect personal privacy

That is a tall bill, most of which I will have to take up in
subsequent columns.  I will focus now on the First two points.
Personal ISDN

For the last two years, the Internet community has generally regarded
Sen. Albert Gore's proposed National Research and Education network
(NREN) as the next major component of the Great Work.  This has been
regrettable.  NREN, as presently envisioned, would do little to enable
the settlement of ordinary folks in Cyberspace.  Rather it would make
plusher accommodations for the "mountain folk" already there.

Actually, NREN has been and may continue to be useful as a "policy
testbed."  By giving Congress a reason to study such legal connundrums
as unregulated common carriage and the intermingling of public and
private networks, NREN may not be a waste of time and focus.  But, as
of this writing, it has become a political football.  If the House
version (H656) of the High Performance Computing Act passes with Dick
Gephart's "Buy American" provisions in it, the administration will
surely veto it, and we'll be back to Square One.

Meanwhile, ISDN, a technology available today has languished.  ISDN or
Integrated Services Digital Network is a software-based system based
on standard digital switching.  Using ISDN, an ordinary copper phone
line can provide two full-duplex 64kb digital channels.  These can be
used independently, concurrently, and simultaneously for voice and/or
data.  (Actually, it's a bit more complex.  Garden variety ISDN
contains three channels.  The third is a 16kb "signal" channel, used
for dialing and other services.)

While those who live their lives at the end of a T1 connection may
consider 64KB to be a glacial transfer rate, the vast majority of
digital communications ooze along at a pace 27 time slower, or 2,400
baud.  We believe the ordinary modem is both too slow and too user-
hostile to create "critical mass" in the on-line market.

We also believe that ISDN, whatever its limitations, is rapid enough
to jump start the greatest free market the world has ever known. 
Widespread deployment of ISDN, combined with recent developments in
compression technology, could break us out of what Adobe's John
Warnock calls the "ascii jail," delivering to the home graphically
rich documents, commercial software objects, and real-time multi-
media.  Much of the information which is now inappropriately wedged
into physical objects--whether books, shrink-wrapped software, videos,
or CDs--would enter the virtual world, its natural home.  Bringing
consumers to Cyberspace would have the same invigorating effect on on-
line technology which the advent of the PC had on computing.

We admit that over the long term, only fiber has sufficient bandwidth
for the future we imagine.  But denying "civilian" access to
Cyberspace until the realization of a megabillion buck end-to-end
fiber network leaves us like the mainframe users in the 1960s waiting
for the supercomputer.  The real juice came not from the Big Iron but
from user-adaptable consumer "toys" like the Apple II and the original
PC.

Just as consumers were oblivious to the advantages of fax technology
until affordable equipment arrived, we believe there is a great
sleeping demand for both ISDN and the tools which will exploit it. 
And then there is the matter of affording the full fiber national
network.  Until the use of digital services has become as common as,
say, the use of VCRs, Joe Sixpack's willingness to help pay fiber's
magnificent cost will be understandably restrained.

Given that most personal modem users are unaware that ISDN even
exists, while the old elite of Internet grossly underestimates its
potential benefits, it is not surprising that the telcos have been
able to claim lack of consumer demand in their reluctance to make it
available.  A cynic might also point to its convenience as a hostage
in their struggles with Judge Greene and the newspaper publishers. 
They wanted into the information business and something like "Allow us
to be information providers or we starve this technology," has been
one of their longest levers.

This issue should now be moot.  Judge Greene ruled in July that the
telcos could start selling information.  They got what they wanted. 
Now we must make them honor their side of the bargain.

Unfortunately, it still seems they will only let us use their playing
field if they can be guaranteed to win the game.  To this end, they
have managed to convince several state Public Utility Commissions that
they should be allowed to charge tariffs for ISDN delivery which are
grotesquely disproportionate to its actual costs.  In Illinois, for
example, customers are paying 10 to 12 cents a minute for an ISDN
connection.  This, despite evidence that the actual telco cost of a
digitally switched phone connection, whether voice or data, runs at
about a penny a minute.  Even in the computer business, 1,200% is not
an ethical gross margin.  And yet the telcos claim that more
appropriate pricing would require pensioners to pay for the plaything
of a few computer geeks.

Unfortunately, the computer industry has been either oblivious to the
opportunities which ISDN presents or reluctant to enter the regulatory
fray before Congress, the FCC, and the PUCs.  The latter is
understandable.  National telecommunications policy has long been an
in-house project of AT&T.  It is brain-glazingly prolix by design and
is generally regarded as a game you cannot win unless you're on the
home team.  The AT&T breakup changed all that, but the industry has
been slow to catch on.

Assurance of Local Competition

In the wake of Ma Bell's dismemberment, the world is a richer and
vastly more complex place.  Who provides what services to whom, and
under what conditions, is an open question in most local venues.  Even
with a scorecard you cannot tell the players since many of them do not
exist yet.

Legislation is presently before Edward Markey's (D-Mass.)  Sub-
committee on Telecommunications and Finance (a subset of the House
Energy and Commerce Committee) which would regulate the entry of the
Regional Bells into the information business.  The committee is
correctly concerned that the RBOCs will use their infrastructure
advantage to freeze out information providers.  In other words, rather
as Microsoft uses DOS and Windows.

Somewhat hysterical over this prospect, the Newspaper Publisher's
Association and the cable television companies have seen to the
introduction of House Bill 3515 by Rep. Jim Cooper (D-Tenn.) which
would essentially cripple telco delivery of information services for
the next decade.  The bill would bar existing telephone service
providers from information provision until 50% of subscribers in a
given area had access to alternative infrastructures.

Of course, neither approach would serve the public interest.  The
telcos have had so little experience with competition that we cannot
expect them to welcome it.  And while eventually there will be local
phone connection competition through wireless technologies, it's silly
to wait until that distant day.

We need a bill which would require that telcos to make ISDN open and
affordable to all information providers, conditioning their entry into
the information business to the willing delivery of such service.

The computer industry has an opportunity to break the gridlock between
the telcos and the publishers.  By representing consumer interests,
which are, in this case, equivalent to our own, we can shape
legislation which would be to everyone's benefit.  What has been
missing in the debate has been technical expertise which serves
neither of the existing contenders.

Finally, the Public Utility Commissions seem unaware of the hidden
potential demand for digital services to the home.  What on earth
would a housewife want with a 64KB data line?  This is another area in
which both consumers and computer companies need to be heard from.

What You Can Do

Obviously, the first task upon entering a major public campaign is
informing oneself and others.  In this, many Communications readers
have a great advantage.  Most of us have access to such on-line fora
as RISKS digest, Telecom Digest, and the EFFectors regulary published
in the EFF's newsgroup comp.org.eff.news.  I strongly recommend that
those interested in assisting this effort begin monitoring those
newsgroups.  I'm tempted to tell you to join the EFF and support our
Washington lobbying efforts, but I probably abuse this podium with out
message too much as it is.

Once you are up to speed on these admittedly labyrinthine issues,
there are three levers you can start leaning against.

First, Congress will be actively studying these matters for the
remainder of the year and is eagerly soliciting viewpoints other than
those self-servingly extended by the telcos and the publishers.  In a
recent letter to EFF Rep. Markey said the following:

Please let me and my staff know what policies you and others
in the computer industry believe would best serve the public
interest in creating a reasonably priced, widely available
network, in which competition is open and innovation is
rewarded.  I also want to learn what lessons from the
computer industry over the past 10 to 15 years should apply
to the current debate on structuring the information and
communication networks of the future.
Second, it is likely that the Public Utility Commission in your state
will be taking up the question of ISDN service and rates sometime in
the next year.  They will likely be grateful for your input.

Finally, you can endeavor to make your own company aware of the
opportunities which ISDN deployment will provide it as well as the
political obstacles to its provision.  No matter what region of the
computer business employs your toils, ISDN will eventually provide a
new market for its products.

Though these matters are still on the back pages of public awareness,
we are at the threshold of one of the great passages in the history of
both computing and telecommunications.  This is the eve of the electronic
frontier's first land rush, a critical moment for the Great Work.



In Chapter 7, discusion focuses on communication and telecommuting, and its
effects on the workplace.  The following are some time-honored techniques in
outline form, for communication in the workplace which, I think, transcend the
"information age" boundaries (I don't have a source for these ideas.  Suffice
it to say, they are not my creation.  The are a composite of notes I have taken
during presentations on the subject, enhancements, etc.)

MANAGERIAL SKILLS:   Theory and technique - need both.  Some principles:
1.      For the first 20% of effort, you get 80% results and you will need to 
        expend the other 80% to get the last 20% of the results.
2.      People have limited ability to deal with details:  How many square in:

        -------------------
       |    |    |    |    |
        -------------------
       |    |    |    |    |
        -------------------
       |    |    |    |    |
        -------------------
       |    |    |    |    |
        -------------------

Devise a divide and conquer method.

3.  Knee-jerk reaction is instinctively incorrect.

4.  Failure-guarantees, when dealing with people; self conscious in a group,
    getting defensive to criticism.

5.  Communication is no more content (knowing what you are talking about)
    than process (technique of communication).

6.  Sincerity is the key component of communication - once you learn
    (real or faked) sincerity, you'll be a good communicator.

7.  AT WORST, AGREE TO DISAGREE - when you're challenged, even if you get
    your way, you have done damage - they will be laying for you.

8.  Weeny roasts aren't fun when you are the weeny.


SIX MODELS FOR COMMUNICATION:
----------------------------


I.      SELL PROBLEM, not solution

 (knee jerk reaction is to say what you want without first explaining the
  problem first).

  Get them to relate to your problem.

  Make it meaningful in their terms.

     "Payroll isn't going to be ready by monday morning" - problem
     "Hate to see company miss payroll for 1st time" = getting them to relate
     "I need John to work overtime this weekend" = solution.



II.     AGREEMENT MODEL: reinforce agreement!

     he says: "Got to get people paid on Monday!"
     you say: "Right, got to get them paid"

        Expand upon agreement.



III.    CONCLUDE:

   Know when you've won (the easy 80%) then cut it off.  

   Review points of agreement

       you say: "Company always pays its employees.  Maybe we'll have to go to
                 payroll and find out what the trouble is."

       he says: "You're right, let's got to the top!"

  Propose course of action:

       "John can get us out of it this time, if he works on it this weekend".


-----------------
If you encounter:
-----------------


IV      RESERVATION AND/OR DOUBT.

       he says:  "I'm not sure John could handle it".
                 "Can't we double up and get it done Monday?"


       you provide re-assurance:

       "Certainly don't want someone who can't handle it."

       "Don't want overtime if its unnecessary."


       provide Proof (only after re-assurance buffer):

       "Here's what's involved.  Got 8 hours work & 1 hour to do it."
       "Don't see how it can be done."



V. QUESTIONS/CONFLICT/CONFUSION:

       he questions: "Isn't unfair to ask John to work weekends again?"

       his conflict/confusion "Forget it!  It's unfair to ask John again."

               (Conflict if true- confusion if false)


       you should always REPHRASE
            (gives you time to think and changes frame of mind.)

            The last thing he disagreed with, he will agree with rephrasing.

            "I see, you're concerned about John's weekend."

            "He has put in a lot of overtime lately."

            Also serves to clarify issue.


   Don't deal with it until you understand it.
   What's said, is not always what's meant.
   What's meant not always what's heard.



    RECOGNIZE HOSTILITY/NEGATIVITY.

    FORCE YOURSELF TO LISTEN AND TELL YOURSELF:
    "I DON'T DO ANYTHING UNTIL I REPHRASE."


     ANSWER(questions)

     MINIMIZE(conflicts)

     CLARIFY(confusion)

         AFTER REPHRASING!!


     Conflict:  keep in mind: there is no perfect solution,
                the world's full of trade-offs, always offsetting issues.

          "You're right.  He's done a lot of overtime lately.
           However, if we don't keep him this weekend, we'll miss payroll.
           Let's figure out how this can be avoided in the future.
           I agree!  It can't go on this way."



VI.  QUERY:  If he is definite, without conflict

     "I don't think so."

     Start off with a probe (with puppy dog eyes):
                      -----

          indirect probe: "oh??" "Any particular reason???"

          direct probes: "Concerned about overtime?"
                         "Worried about John's competence?"

          After 2 indirects switch to direct.
          Avoid games of 20 questions.






FINAL NOTES:
-----------

If you do these things, your hit rate will increase dramatically.

You won't get into arguments.

You won't make enemies.


Prepare for your meetings (know content of issues.  Don't "wing it")


Most situations aren't zero-sum games

        (where the sum of the gain for all is zero)

        For example: car sales is not zero sum.
        Salesman who lies is making a zero-sum game out of something that
                 shouldn't be!

Knee jerk is to make statements when you ought to ask questions.
Any statement can be made a question.
Statements commit!  Questions don't.

If you can't come up with a question use

      "What's your idea for a solution."

      Then reinforce   "You're right.  It's hard to find a solution."



CREDIBILITY:  requires all of the following four,

1.  expertise (no carry over - goof once and that's all they'll remember)

2.  trustworthiness (carries over)

3.  dynamism

4.  status (higher rank more believable)


BODY LANGUAGE (very important):

     silent pauses/sighs - reverse meaning (be careful of these!).

     gestures illustrate words OR make stand alone statements (shrugs)

     touches, handshakes effective (watch for flinch, though)


     NO FINGER POINTING

     When there is conflict: use OPENNESS body language:

           direct facing,
           good eye contact,
           open palms,
           spread legs,
           forward lean


     When there's doubt:  use RE-ASSURANCE body language:

           open eyes,
           lifted eyebrows,
           hands to chest


     When conflict is close: use COOPERATION body language:

           roll up sleeves,
           take off coat,
           hands in "scales of justice position


     When giving explanation or proof:  use CONFIDENCE body language:

           erect posture,
           eye contact
