From forseth Fri Jan 22 23:39:58 1993
Received: by plains.NoDak.edu; Fri, 22 Jan 1993 23:39:56 -0600
Date: Fri, 22 Jan 1993 23:39:56 -0600
From: Bill Forseth <forseth>
Message-Id: <199301230539.AA26513@plains.NoDak.edu>
To: perrizo
Subject: Shareware Info
Status: R

1/23/93

Dr. Perrizo -

In regards to the discussion in class about Shareware, here is a very
partial list of major shareware vendors, (and in general what they
look for in submissions), that you might want to pass along. Hopefully
this will be of help to those who are looking for outlets for their
software. These companies carry many thousands of programs, from very
small single purpose utilities to multi-disk do-all programs. One
should write or call and ask for a catalog before submitting anything,
to get a feel for what they carry. (Some of them charge $1.00 or so
for their catalogs).


Public Brand Software           Public (Software) Library
3750 Kentucky Ave.              PO Box 35705
Indianapolis, IN                Houston, TX
46241                           77235
1-800-426-3475                  1-713-665-7017


The Software Labs               Association of Shareware Professionals
3767 Overland Ave., #112        545 Grover Rd.
Los Angeles, CA                 Muskegon, MI 49442
90034                           (NOT a marketing company - and NOT
1-800-569-7900                   a requirement for Shareware authors).



The minimum requirements for software submissions to these companies
are usually:

   1. Each program should have a like-named document file (ie:
      speedup.com - speedup.doc). The doc file should be drool proof
      (even an idiot would understand it), and should be viewable by
      any ascii viewer (LIST, DR, MORE, etc). Name a doc file
      README and it'll get lost in the shuffle.

   2. One program (and supporting files) per submission is usually
      requested.

   3. Each submission should be on otherwise empty 360k disks, no
      sub-directories, no surprises. It goes almost without saying
      that we're dealing with DOS here.

   4. If the program is compressed it should be decompressable by
      PKUNZIP or PKUNPAK. ZOO, DWC, ARJ, LHA and some of the more
      exotic compressors are not in very common use at this point (as
      far as these companies are concerned). Also, PKARC has had
      (legal) problems, but ARC files would probably be accepted.
      LZ-ing or PKLITE-ing files is, as far as I know, OK. Microsoft's
      EXEPACK is not cool (LZ sneers when it comes across it). Making
      self-extracting compressed files should be OK, too.

   5. As for the quality of the software, programs that crash on
      incorrect input, abort without explanation, alter screen colors,
      erase data without warning, leave hidden files, quit without
      restoring the cursor, etc. are frowned upon. As are TSR's that
      hog memory or freeze machines. Also, it is bad form to hard code
      directory / drive names into a program, although it's still done
      sometimes. It is extremely poor taste to write code that will
      alter a user's autoexec.bat or config.sys files without their
      knowledge or permission.

      In general the world does not need another file finder, file
      lister, TSR notepad, bad TSR clock, tree pruner, lowercase to
      uppercase filter, etc. - although if one were to write one
      faster / smaller / flashier / friendlier it might go over.
      Reason is that this puts the vendor into a conflict - which of
      the many, many like programs should they push?? So chances are
      that if a program is but a duplication of another one it might
      get "carried" by the vendor - but not put in the catalog, (which
      means that almost nobody would know about it). If you can whip
      up something that is size proportional to the number of
      different things it can do, is reasonably pretty and mighty
      friendly, and does something unique but sensible (as in "Why
      didn't I think of that?") you're pretty much assured that it'll
      get carried. My first useful Shareware program was one that did
      nothing (at first) but list all the files in the path. Took a
      whole afternoon to write. It's now a standard utility in PBS's
      catalog. Thing is that nobody had ever thought of it before (or
      considered it worth coding up). I'm not sure if anyone's
      actually using it, but it's stayed in the catalog, I think, just
      because it's the only one around. A bit of practical advice - if
      you write something that you want to submit, polish it up as
      much as you can, then sit on it for a bit. Don't get
      over-anxious. I recalled my very first Shareware submission
      because I had left debugging output in it. I was very
      embarassed.

   6. It is preferred that the executable files are compiled to run on
      8086 machines, take minimal memory to run, not require extensive
      graphic capabilities or math coprocessors. These rules can be
      relaxed, though, if the program has a way of detecting if it's
      running on a machine without these goodies.  This is not to say
      that flash is unacceptable - just that it should be available to
      everyone.

   7. It usually takes about 2 to 6 months from the time of submission
      until one sees their name in lights - ie: a 2-3 line blurb in
      the catalog - if they find it acceptable. (Be careful what you
      say about your program in any 2-3 line description, as they
      usually just cut and paste something from the doc file into the
      catalog). Some, but not all, vendors will send back an evaluation
      form. If your program does get listed, updates will insure that
      it'll stay listed, especially if they really are updates.

   8. As far as copyrighting - who knows? But, from what I understand,
      it does no harm to include something like: (c) 1993 Bob Smith.
      If one were to come up with, say, a better file copy method (and
      better here means faster and smaller) I'd definitely look into
      getting a real down home Washington type copyright. As far as
      price, the cheaper the better. At least until one gets to a
      higher version. Also, it's cheesy to label one's first beta
      release something like v2.00 (although I've heard that it gets
      done occasionally). As far as virus checking - yes, check before
      you send. Shareware companies, though, take great pains (and are
      quick to talk about) the lengths they go to insure that their
      disks are virus-free. One persistent rumor and a multi-million
      dollar vendor could get wiped out.

   9. Some of the companies are more likely to list your software if
      the source code is included. This is a good way for a programmer
      to develop a name, and prospective employers might be impressed.
      Most, if not all, of the companies run their own BBS's, about
      which I know nothing except that, yes, there's usually a charge
      to join, and it's long distance call.


If one writes a swell program and would like to get a quicker and more
controlled distribution there are many BBS's in the local area, and
many, many more in the country, where you can upload your product for
free. Listings of locals can be found in or around ~root/keeper/pc, I
believe.

If anyone has any other addresses, tips, corrections to the above,
horror or success stories in regards to Shareware marketing, you could
send it to me via e-mail. If there's any kind of response I'll open up
a public directory containing all information I get in:

	/student/mnt/cf0a/ndsu/91/forseth/shareware.public


                             Bill Forseth
                            forseth@plains

