        Fall 1993                   CS/EE 373                  R. Gammill



        Homework #8: due at class on Wednesday December 1, 1993
                        (NO LATE HOMEWORK WITHOUT A WRITTEN EXCUSE)

        Write a filter "prep" which splits its text input into words, one
        word  per  line,  all  alphabetic  characters translated to lower
        case, and puts this result on its standard output.   You  are  to
        write  the  program  in C using getchar for input and putchar for
        output.  This program will be tested by using it with sort,  uniq
        and  pr  to  produce  a  three to five column output (exactly one
        page) of how many occurrences of different words  there  were  in
        the    text    of    this    homework    assignment   (found   in
        ~gammill/373/hmwrk8).  The definition of what a "word" is follows
        the paper "Statistical Text Processing" pp. 2137-2154 in the Bell
        System Technical Journal, July-August 1978.  To  summarize  those
        conventions,  all punctuation and white space (made up of blanks,
        tabs \t and newlines \n) separates words.  Hyphens are also  word
        separators.   Apostrophes  in  the interior of a word are part of
        the word (e.g. cat's and don't), but apostrophes before or  after
        a  word are not (e.g. 'tis and Chris').  Numeric digit characters
        are not parts of words and numbers are not words.

        Your output will be produced by the command sequence:

          prep < ~gammill/373/hmwrk8 | sort | uniq -c | sort -n -r | pr

        However, you will need to give pr some arguments to get three  to
        five  column format (the least number of colums to get everything
        on one page) and a nice heading indicating who you are  and  what
        is  being  done.   Be  sure  the comments at the beginning of the
        source listing of your program contain  identifying  information.
        Turn  your source code (with pr heading) and output of the run in
        on eight and 1/2 by eleven inch paper.
