        Spring 1994       CS 459 - Local Area Networks         R. Gammill


        Homework #1: due at class time on Wednesday Jan. 26, 1994

        This assignment is to be carried out on the sod.cc.ndsu.nodak.edu
        cluster  (the  Sun  cluster).   cx01.sod.cc.ndsu.nodak.edu is the
        server.

        Under ~gammill/xload  you  will  find  a  makefile,  xload.c  and
        get_load.c.   Your assignment is to get your own modified version
        of xload, called  xusers,  running  under  X-windows.   Xload  is
        really  a strip-chart display of data which is collected every 10
        seconds (unless  you  specify  different).   Your  xusers  is  to
        display  the  number  of users logged in on plains divided by 10.
        The uptime function on plains and rsh on sod will  allow  you  to
        get this data, e.g. "rsh plains -l logname uptime".  Your .rhosts
        file  on  plains  must  permit  sod  systems to do rsh under your
        login.  Also, the name displayed on the label line at the top  of
        the  window should no longer be xload, but "users/10".  The label
        inside the  window  should  be  the  name  of  the  system  being
        measured, e.g. badlands.  It is required that you make the system
        name a command line argument, and not build it into the code.  To
        be graded on this assignment you must turn in a hard copy of your
        get_load.c  replacement and document changes you made to xload.c.
        Make sure the xload.c changes are easy to understand,  i.e.  show
        before  and  after  snapshots  of the lines changed with specific
        changes highlighted.  You must also create  a  bin  directory  in
        your login directory and put your xusers in there.  You must also
        "open up" (chmod 755) your main directory so we can get into your
        bin  directory  to run your xusers.  Be sure to put private stuff
        into a subdirectories which you close (chmod 700).

        xload.c  is  a  system  independent  X  application  package  for
        displaying  a  strip  chart on your screen.  Xload displays a new
        "double" value every 10 seconds (you can modify that).  Xload  is
        fairly  easy to read, except that it uses the "Widget Library" of
        X, which is very complex.

        get_load.c is a mess.  It is packed full of #ifdef,  #elseif  and
        #endif preprocessor statements, which make the code difficult for
        humans  to  read.   It  is  all  there  to provide portability to
        different OS and hardware platforms.  At any rate, all  you  want
        from  get_load.c  is  to figure out how to build empty stubs that
        will let you compile an xload that will appear on your screen but
        display nothing much of interest.  Then, you are to use  rsh  and
        uptime to get the required information.

        You know the purpose of makefiles, but you've probably never seen
        one  quite  like  this before.  You must use the makefile.  X has
        libraries that run off towards the horizon.  Getting  your  xload
        running with a stub get_load.c (rename that too) will verify that
        you  have  understood  and  used the makefile correctly.  Do that
        first.





                                     - 1 - 
